Refs #36688 - Provide option to use wget for the new Register Host feature (#2376)
theforeman/foreman-documentation: guides/common/modules/proc_registering-a-host.adoc

Reviewer: I'd go with "your host" instead of "the host".

ifndef::satellite,orcharhino[]
Specifying an operating system is required when you register machines without `subscription-manager`, such as Debian or Ubuntu.
endif::[]
. Optional: From the *{SmartProxy}* list, select the {SmartProxy} to register the host through.
ifdef::katello,satellite,orcharhino[]
. In the *Activation Keys* field, enter one or more activation keys to assign to the host.
endif::[]
. Optional: If you want to use `wget` to register the host to {Project}, select the *Use wget* option.
By default, {Project} generates a `curl` command.
. Optional: If you want to make the first call insecure, select the *Insecure* option.
During this first call, the host downloads the CA file from {Project}.
The host will use this CA file to connect to {Project} with all future calls making them secure.
+
{Team} recommends that you avoid insecure calls.
+
If an attacker, located in the network between {Project} and the host, fetches the CA file from the first insecure call, the attacker will be able to access the content of the API calls to and from the registered host and the JSON Web Tokens (JWT).

> Therefore, if you have chosen to deploy SSH keys during registration, the attacker will be able to access the host using the SSH key.
> +
> Instead, you can manually copy and install the CA file on each host before registering the host.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Therefore, it is highly recommended to manually copy and install the CA file on each host before registering them instead of using SSH keys.
```
Not a part of this PR but this should be precise.

Reviewer 3: This is an incorrect suggestion. The SSH keys are related to remote execution. The user can deploy them regardless of using or not using the insecure call. It just says that these SSH keys can be stolen if the call is insecure.

Reviewer 2: How about we make it more specific `Therefore in this case,....` 

I mean I am not overlooking SSH. But, particular to this case only.

Reviewer 3: But that doesn't help. It's already specific enough.

Reviewer 2: Alright, we can disregard this 👍

+
To do this, find where {Project} stores the CA file by navigating to *Administer* > *Settings* > *Authentication* and locating the value of the *SSL CA file* setting.
+

> Copy the CA file to the `/etc/pki/ca-trust/source/anchors/` directory on each host and enter the following commands:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Copy the CA file to the `/etc/pki/ca-trust/source/anchors/` directory on your host and enter the following commands:
```

+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# update-ca-trust enable
# update-ca-trust
----
+
Then register your host with a secure `curl` command, such as:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# curl -sS https://{foreman-example-com}/register ...
----
+

> The following is an example of the insecure `curl` command with the `--insecure` option:
> +
> [options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
> ----
> # curl -sS --insecure https://{foreman-example-com}/register ...
> ----

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following is an example of the insecure `curl` command:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# curl -sS *--insecure* https://{foreman-example-com}/register ...
----
```

Reviewer: I am unsure about highlighting parts of the command; this seems rather unusual. To reduce the overall length, maybe we can instead append a line such as 

````
+
If your host does not trust the {Project} SSL certificate, use the `X` option.
````

Author: Thinking about the whole "Insecure" bullet point IMO it would also be a good idea to omit the whole command examples. Users should simply copy the generated command and not modify it manually (as it is really a complex command) and the command details could make users think, they have to enter / modify things manually.

So we could just replace the part beginning from `Then register your host with a secure `curl` command, such as:` by `Afterwards you can continue registering your hosts without the *Insecure* option.`

What do you think about?

Reviewer 3: Good point. I agree.

Reviewer: I would not duplicate all command examples. I'd rather mention that hosts have to trust the ProjectServer SSL cert, or, alternatively, add the suggestion as above: https://github.com/theforeman/foreman-documentation/pull/2376/files#r1331083168

+
If you chose to use `wget`, register your host with a secure `wget` command, such as:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# wget --no-verbose -O- https://{foreman-example-com}/register ...
----
+

> The following is an example of the insecure `wget` command with the `--no-check-certificate` option:
> +
> [options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
> ----
> # wget --no-verbose -O- --no-check-certificate https://{foreman-example-com}/register ...
> ----

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following is an example of the insecure `wget` command:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# wget --no-verbose -O- *--no-check-certificate* https://{foreman-example-com}/register ...
----
```

. If your host does not trust the SSL certificate of your {ProjectServer}, select the *Insecure* option.
During the first call, your host downloads the CA file from {Project}.
Your host will use this CA file to connect to {ProjectServer} with all future calls.
+
{Team} recommends that you avoid insecure calls.
+
If an attacker, located in the network between {Project} and your host, fetches the CA file from the first insecure call, the attacker will be able to access the content of the API calls to and from your host and the JSON Web Tokens (JWT).
Therefore, if you have chosen to deploy SSH keys during registration, the attacker will be able to access your host using the SSH key.
+
Instead, you can manually copy and install the CA file on each host before registration.
+
To do this, find where {Project} stores the CA file by navigating to *Administer* > *Settings* > *Authentication* and locating the value of the *SSL CA file* setting.
+
Copy the CA file to the `/etc/pki/ca-trust/source/anchors/` directory on your host and enter the following commands:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# update-ca-trust enable
# update-ca-trust
----
+

> Then register your host with a secure `curl` command, such as:
> +
> [options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
> ----
> # curl -sS https://{foreman-example-com}/register ...
> ----
> +

Author: What I'm still thinking about is if we should leave out also the secure code examples. This would also apply for the `wget` example below. What do you think @Lennonka and @maximiliankolb?
```suggestion
```

Reviewer 3: I'd remove them.

. In the {ProjectWebUI}, navigate to *Hosts* > *Register Host*.
. Optional: Select a different *Organization*.
. Optional: Select a different *Location*.
. Optional: From the *Host Group* list, select the host group to associate your host with.
Fields that inherit value from *Host group*: *Operating system*, *Activation Keys* and *Lifecycle environment*.
. Optional: From the *Operating system* list, select the operating system of the host that you want to register.
ifndef::satellite,orcharhino[]
Specifying an operating system is required when you register machines without `subscription-manager`, such as Debian or Ubuntu.
endif::[]
. Optional: From the *{SmartProxy}* list, select the {SmartProxy} to register your host through.
ifdef::katello,satellite,orcharhino[]
. In the *Activation Keys* field, enter one or more activation keys to assign to your host.
endif::[]

> . Optional: If you want to use `wget` to register your host to {Project}, select the *Use wget* option.

Author: ```suggestion
. If you want to use `wget` to register your host to {Project}, select the *Use wget* option.
```

. In the {ProjectWebUI}, navigate to *Hosts* > *Register Host*.
. Optional: Select a different *Organization*.
. Optional: Select a different *Location*.
. Optional: From the *Host Group* list, select the host group to associate your host with.
Fields that inherit value from *Host group*: *Operating system*, *Activation Keys* and *Lifecycle environment*.
. Optional: From the *Operating system* list, select the operating system of the host that you want to register.
ifndef::satellite,orcharhino[]
Specifying an operating system is required when you register machines without `subscription-manager`, such as Debian or Ubuntu.
endif::[]
. Optional: From the *{SmartProxy}* list, select the {SmartProxy} to register your host through.
ifdef::katello,satellite,orcharhino[]
. In the *Activation Keys* field, enter one or more activation keys to assign to your host.
endif::[]
. Optional: If you want to use `wget` to register your host to {Project}, select the *Use wget* option.
By default, {Project} generates a `curl` command.

> . Optional: If you want to make the first call insecure, select the *Insecure* option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Optional: If your host does not trust the SSL certificate of your {ProjectServer}, select the *Insecure* option.
```

> During this first call, your host downloads the CA file from {Project}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During the first call, your host downloads the CA file from {Project}.
```

> Your host will use this CA file to connect to {Project} with all future calls making them secure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your host will use this CA file to connect to {ProjectServer} with all future calls.
```

+
{Team} recommends that you avoid insecure calls.
+
If an attacker, located in the network between {Project} and your host, fetches the CA file from the first insecure call, the attacker will be able to access the content of the API calls to and from your host and the JSON Web Tokens (JWT).
Therefore, if you have chosen to deploy SSH keys during registration, the attacker will be able to access your host using the SSH key.
+
Instead, you can manually copy and install the CA file on each host before registration.
+
To do this, find where {Project} stores the CA file by navigating to *Administer* > *Settings* > *Authentication* and locating the value of the *SSL CA file* setting.
+
Copy the CA file to the `/etc/pki/ca-trust/source/anchors/` directory on your host and enter the following commands:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# update-ca-trust enable
# update-ca-trust
----
+
Then register your host with a secure `curl` command, such as:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# curl -sS https://{foreman-example-com}/register ...
----
+

> The following is an example of the insecure `curl` command with the `--insecure` option:
> +
> [options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
> ----
> # curl -sS --insecure https://{foreman-example-com}/register ...
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+
If your host does not trust the SSL cerfiticate of your {ProjectServer}, add the `--insecure` option to the registration command.
```

Reviewer 3: Yeah, but the user doesn't add the option manually, they select the option in the GUI.

Reviewer: Yes, my bad. Then it'd be "...., select the *Insecure* checkbox". @goarsna

> ----

Reviewer: I would drop line 67-73/69-75 and not document the insecure example. Is that OK for you @Lennonka ?

Reviewer 3: Yep.

+
If you chose to use `wget`, register your host with a secure `wget` command, such as:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# wget --no-verbose -O- https://{foreman-example-com}/register ...
----

> +
> The following is an example of the insecure `wget` command with the `--no-check-certificate` option:
> +
> [options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
> ----
> # wget --no-verbose -O- --no-check-certificate https://{foreman-example-com}/register ...
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Apply this suggestion if we also drop the insecure example for `curl`.

endif::[]
. Optional: If you want to use `wget` to register your host to {Project}, select the *Use wget* option.
By default, {Project} generates a `curl` command.

> . Optional: If your host does not trust the SSL certificate of your {ProjectServer}, select the *Insecure* option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. If your host does not trust the SSL certificate of your {ProjectServer}, select the *Insecure* option.
```

ifdef::foreman-el,foreman-deb,katello[]
. Optional: This step is for the Katello users only.

> If you register a {RHEL} or CentOS host, in the *Activation Keys* field, enter one or more activation keys to assign to the registered host.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you register your {EL} host, in the *Activation Keys* field, enter one or more activation keys to assign to the registered host.
```

Author: Kept as discussed
